doc: Add SUIT DFU API group (#16849)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/dfu/suit_dfu.rst

.. _subsys_suit:

Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT)
##############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) DFU library provides functionality for a Local domain Core to orchestrate the update based on the SUIT manifest.

Overview
********

> The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start as well as prepare the device before the update procedure is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure is started.
```

> The preparation for the DFU may be described as a sequence inside a SUIT manifest (suit-payload-fetch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preparation for the DFU can be described as a sequence inside a SUIT manifest (suit-payload-fetch).
```

> To interpret and execute this sequence, a SUIT processor must be instantiated inside the Local domain Core firmware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interpret and execute this sequence, a SUIT processor must be instantiated inside the firmware of the local domain core.
```

Reviewer: Can you define the difference between core and domain?

Author: I think there are official definitions for nRF54. Do you know where they can be found?
Unfortunately, my understanding is not the one to use in this case :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer: From the definitions I heard about, they should be synonyms. @hubertmis is this the case? If that's the case, I'd remove the word core and just leave domain

Reviewer 2: Depending on the context, sometimes they are synonyms. I agree it would be clearer tot drop "domain"

> This library provides a simplified API, that manages the processor state, executes the fetching sequence from the SUIT manifest, as well as passes the update candidate info to the Secure domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library provides a simplified API that manages the processor state, executes the fetching sequence from the SUIT manifest, and passes the update candidate info to the Secure domain.
```

> The following steps are required by the application to perform the Device Firmware Update:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application requires the following steps to perform the Device Firmware Update:
```

> 1. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_initialize` to initialize the SUIT DFU module before any other SUIT functionalities are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_initialize` to initialize the SUIT DFU module before any other SUIT functionality is used.
```

>    This function has to be called only once. This function must be called with at least APPLICATION init level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This function must be called only once, with at least ``APPLICATION`` init level
```

>    (calling it in POST_KERNEL or earlier init level causes undefined behavior).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
   
```suggestion
   Calling this function in ``POST_KERNEL`` or earlier init level causes undefined behavior.
```

> #. Optional step: If the SUIT manifest requires fetching of additional data in the suit-payload-fetch sequence,
>    register fetch sources using :c:func:`suit_dfu_fetch_source_register`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If the SUIT manifest requires the fetch of additional data in the suit-payload-fetch sequence, register fetch sources using :c:func:`suit_dfu_fetch_source_register`.
```

> #. Store the SUIT candidate envelope in the non-volatile memory area defined as dfu_partition in the device tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Store the SUIT candidate envelope in the non-volatile memory area defined as dfu_partition in the devicetree.
```

> #. Optional step, not yet supported: Store other needed data/detached payloads in dfu cache partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Optional step, not yet supported: Store other needed data/detached payloads in dfu cache partitions.
```

If it is not supported, it should not be documented in external user-facing docs.

>    DFU cache pool 0 is not available at this stage (it is part of the dfu_partition not occupied by the SUIT candidate envelope).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The DFU cache pool ``0`` is not available at this stage, as it is part of the dfu_partition not occupied by the SUIT candidate envelope.
```

Author: Removed with the unsupported step.

> #. When storing the SUIT candidate envelope is finished, call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_envelope_stored`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. After the SUIT candidate envelope is stored, call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_envelope_stored`.
```

> #. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_preprocess`. If any fetch sources were registered in step (2) they might be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_preprocess`.
   Any fetch source registered in step number 2 can be used by this function to fetch additional data.
```

>    by this function to fetch additional data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_update_start`. This will start the firmware update by resetting the device and passing
>    control over the update to the Secure Domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_update_start`.
   This will start the firmware update by resetting the device and passing control over the update to the Secure Domain.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are there any dependencies that should be listed?
```

Author: Apart from `zcbor`, probably:

- Zephyr flash driver
- SUIT processor (not documented)
- SSF SUIT service (no idea if it is documented)

Reviewer: So these should be added at the end of the document in the dependencies chapter

Author: Could you provide the correctly formatted list?
I'm a bit lost in all those RST links and do not know how to link undocumented libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :ref:`
```

and the anchor to the page of the flash driver doc. 
Is this the page? https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/hardware/peripherals/flash.html

Author: Additional dependencies added.

> .. _subsys_suit:

Reviewer 2: Is an application expected to use this library directly or through a helper like dfu_target?

Author: Directly. DFU target uses this API to implement it's functionality.

Reviewer 2: Now I'm confused. What is the intended call flow?

* application -> suit_dfu
* application -> dfu_target -> suit_dfu
* something else?

Author: The first and the second option are a valid use cases

Reviewer 2: Which one is the recommended one?

Author: OK, I've added a note about the dfu_target compatibility layer.
In fact, it does not use the SUIT DFU library and allows only for a single-push updates.

Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT)
##############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) DFU library provides functionality to the core of a local domain for orchestrating the update based on the SUIT manifest.

Author: changed, as suggested.

Overview
********

> The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure is started.

Author: Do you suggest to copy conceptual docs from user guides to the library docs?

> The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure is started.

Reviewer 2: I mean docs must be clear to the audience. If getting familiar with conceptual docs is a prerequisite to understanding this API doc, it should be clearly stated and linked

> The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure is started.

Author: Link to the conceptual docs added.

The preparation for the DFU can be described as a sequence inside a SUIT manifest (suit-payload-fetch).
To interpret and execute this sequence, a SUIT processor must be instantiated inside the firmware of the local domain core.
This library provides a simplified API that manages the processor state, executes the fetching sequence from the SUIT manifest, and passes the update candidate info to the Secure domain.

The application requires the following steps to perform the Device Firmware Update:

1. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_initialize` to initialize the SUIT DFU module before any other SUIT functionality is used.
   This function must be called only once, with at least ``APPLICATION`` init level.
   Calling this function in ``POST_KERNEL`` or earlier init level causes undefined behavior.

> #. If the SUIT manifest requires the fetch of additional data in the suit-payload-fetch sequence,

Author: The application cannot, but the author of the manifest should know it.
If we consider a general case, this API is called unconditionally.

   register fetch sources using :c:func:`suit_dfu_fetch_source_register`.

> #. Store the SUIT candidate envelope in the non-volatile memory area defined as dfu_partition in the devicetree.

Reviewer 2: Is storing in a memory defined as "dfu_partition" a requirement? What would happen if the envelope was stored somewhere else, or the memory area would be called "suit_envelope_partition"?

Author: Than this API would not pick it up and trigger the DFU. This library has the partition name hard-coded.

Reviewer 2: Ok, I wasn't expecting a hard-coded partition name. Should we use something like `chosen/nordic,suti-dfu-patition` instead of hardcoding? Of course outside of this PR scope

Author: Yes, this is the right way to do that, I'll create a JIRA ticket for it.

Reviewer 2: Please add a link to Jira here for traceability

Author: NCSDK-28785

.. _subsys_suit:

Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT)
##############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) library provides functionality to a local domain for for orchestrating the update based on the SUIT manifest.

Overview
********

The SUIT is the DFU and secure boot method for nRF54H Series of System-on-Chip.

> For a conceptual overview of the SUIT procedures, manifests and components, read the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a conceptual overview of the SUIT procedures, manifests, and components, read the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu` page.
```

> The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SUIT DFU library provides APIs to start and prepare the device before the update procedure begins.
```

> The preparation for the DFU can be described as a sequence inside a SUIT manifest (suit-payload-fetch).
> To interpret and execute this sequence, a SUIT processor must be instantiated inside the local domain's firmware.
> This library provides a simplified API that manages the SUIT processor state, executes the fetching sequence from the SUIT manifest, and passes the update candidate info to the Secure Domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preparation for the DFU can be described as a sequence within a SUIT manifest (suit-payload-fetch).
To interpret and execute this sequence, a SUIT processor must be instantiated in the local domain's firmware.
This library provides a simplified API that manages the SUIT processor state, executes the fetching sequence from the SUIT manifest, and passes the update candidate information to the Secure Domain.
```

The application requires the following steps to perform the Device Firmware Update:

1. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_initialize` to initialize the SUIT DFU module before any other SUIT functionality is used.
   This function must be called only once, after the device drivers are ready.

> #. If the design of the DFU system used by this device allows for the fetch of additional data in the suit-payload-fetch sequence,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If the design of the DFU system used by this device allows for the fetch of additional data in the ``suit-payload-fetch`` sequence,
```

   register fetch sources using :c:func:`suit_dfu_fetch_source_register`.

> #. Store the SUIT candidate envelope in the non-volatile memory area defined as dfu_partition in the devicetree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Store the SUIT candidate envelope in the non-volatile memory area defined as ``dfu_partition`` in the devicetree.
```

#. After the SUIT candidate envelope is stored, call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_envelope_stored`.

#. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_candidate_preprocess`.
   Any fetch source registered in step number 2 can be used by this function to fetch additional data.

#. Call :c:func:`suit_dfu_update_start`.
   This will start the firmware update by resetting the device and passing control over the update to the Secure Domain.

> In addition to this library, there is a compatibility layer for the :ref:`lib_dfu_target` available.
> The compatibility layer is limited to the updates that contain a single update binary and does not allow to process SUIT manifests by the local domain.
> To use other upgrade schemes, the usage of SUIT DFU API is necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to this library, a compatibility layer for the :ref:`lib_dfu_target` is available.  
The compatibility layer is limited to updates that contain a single update binary and does not allow the local domain to process SUIT manifests.  
To use other upgrade schemes, the SUIT DFU API must be used.
```

Dependencies
************

> This sample uses the following Zephyr libraries:
> 
> * :ref:`zephyr:flash_api`
> 
> This module uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:
> 
> * `zcbor`_
> * `suit-processor`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* `zcbor`_
* `suit-processor`_

This sample also uses the following Zephyr libraries:

* :ref:`zephyr:flash_api`
```

Author: Rephrased - it is a module, not a sample and the `flash_api` is more of a driver than library
